CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Thanks for being willing to contribute!

**Working on your first Pull Request?** You can learn how from this *free* series
[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub][egghead]

## Project setup

1. Fork and clone the repo
2. `$ npm install` to install dependencies
3. `$ npm start validate` to validate you've got it working
4. Create a branch for your PR

This project uses [`nps`](https://github.com/kentcdodds/nps) and you can run `npm start help` to see what
scripts are available.

> Tip: Keep your `master` branch pointing at the original repository and make
> pull requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/paypal/downshift.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/master master
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream,"
> Then fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `master`
> branch to use the upstream master branch whenever you run `git pull`.
> Then you can make all of your pull request branches based on this `master`
> branch. Whenever you want to update your version of `master`, do a regular
> `git pull`.

## Add yourself as a contributor

This project follows the [all contributors][all-contributors] specification.
To add yourself to the table of contributors on the README.md, please use the
automated script as part of your PR:

```console
npm start contributors.add
```

Follow the prompt and commit `.all-contributorsrc` and `README.md` in the PR.
If you've already added yourself to the list and are making
a new type of contribution, you can run it again and select the added
contribution type.

## Committing and Pushing changes

This project uses [`semantic-release`][semantic-release] to do automatic
releases and generate a changelog based on the commit history. So we follow
[a convention][convention] for commit messages. You don't have to follow this
convention if you don't like to. Just know that when we merge your commit, we'll
probably use "Squash and Merge" so we can change the commit message :)

Please make sure to run the tests before you commit your changes. You can run
`npm start test.update` which will update any snapshots that need updating.
Make sure to include those changes (if they exist) in your commit.

### opt into git hooks

There are git hooks set up with this project that are automatically installed
when you install dependencies. They're really handy, but are turned off by
default (so as to not hinder new contributors). You can opt into these by
creating a file called `.opt-in` at the root of the project and putting this
inside:

```
pre-commit
```

## Help needed

Please checkout the [the open issues][issues]

Also, please watch the repo and respond to questions/bug reports/feature requests! Thanks!

[egghead]: https://egghead.io/series/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github
[semantic-release]: https://npmjs.com/package/semantic-release
[convention]: https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog-angular/blob/ed32559941719a130bb0327f886d6a32a8cbc2ba/convention.md
[all-contributors]: https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors
[issues]: https://github.com/paypal/downshift/issues

Commit message:

Added documentation for Storybook
Adds documentation to get Storybook dependencies installed, as discussed in #125.

I added as a sub-section to "Project setup" as this would be a natural next-step after forking/cloning the project.

Let me know if the copy is ok or feel free to change as needed. 🙂

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thanks for being willing to contribute!

**Working on your first Pull Request?** You can learn how from this *free* series
[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub][egghead]

## Project setup

1. Fork and clone the repo
2. `$ npm install` to install dependencies
3. `$ npm start validate` to validate you've got it working
4. Create a branch for your PR

This project uses [`nps`](https://github.com/kentcdodds/nps) and you can run `npm start help` to see what
scripts are available.

> Tip: Keep your `master` branch pointing at the original repository and make
> pull requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/paypal/downshift.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/master master
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream,"
> Then fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `master`
> branch to use the upstream master branch whenever you run `git pull`.
> Then you can make all of your pull request branches based on this `master`
> branch. Whenever you want to update your version of `master`, do a regular
> `git pull`.

### Local development

This project uses [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org) for local development. Run the following commands to get setup:

1. `$ cd stories` to change to the `/stores` diretory
2. `$ npm install` to install the Storybook dependencies
3. `$ cd ..` to change back to the root directory

With the Storybook dependancies installed, run the following command to start your local environment:

`npm start stotybook`

Open [`http://localhost:6006/`](http://localhost:6006/) in your browser and start developing!

## Add yourself as a contributor

This project follows the [all contributors][all-contributors] specification.
To add yourself to the table of contributors on the README.md, please use the
automated script as part of your PR:

```console
npm start contributors.add
```

Follow the prompt and commit `.all-contributorsrc` and `README.md` in the PR.
If you've already added yourself to the list and are making
a new type of contribution, you can run it again and select the added
contribution type.

## Committing and Pushing changes

This project uses [`semantic-release`][semantic-release] to do automatic
releases and generate a changelog based on the commit history. So we follow
[a convention][convention] for commit messages. You don't have to follow this
convention if you don't like to. Just know that when we merge your commit, we'll
probably use "Squash and Merge" so we can change the commit message :)

Please make sure to run the tests before you commit your changes. You can run
`npm start test.update` which will update any snapshots that need updating.
Make sure to include those changes (if they exist) in your commit.

### opt into git hooks

There are git hooks set up with this project that are automatically installed
when you install dependencies. They're really handy, but are turned off by
default (so as to not hinder new contributors). You can opt into these by
creating a file called `.opt-in` at the root of the project and putting this
inside:

```
pre-commit
```

## Help needed

Please checkout the [the open issues][issues]

Also, please watch the repo and respond to questions/bug reports/feature requests! Thanks!

[egghead]: https://egghead.io/series/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github
[semantic-release]: https://npmjs.com/package/semantic-release
[convention]: https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog-angular/blob/ed32559941719a130bb0327f886d6a32a8cbc2ba/convention.md
[all-contributors]: https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors
[issues]: https://github.com/paypal/downshift/issues
