src/hooks/README.md, before:

# Downshift Hooks

A set of hooks to build simple, flexible, WAI-ARIA compliant React dropdown components.
Developed as a follow up on [this issue][hooks-issue] about using hooks in our API.

## Hooks

### useSelect

For a `<select>` custom dropdown [click here][select-readme].

## Roadmap and contributions

Next steps:

- complete testing for the `useSelect` hook and polishing API.
- create types (TS and Flow) for it or re-write it directly in Typescript.
- create `useAutocomplete` hook (the old Downshift default component) for the combobox design pattern.
- create `multiple` versions for `useSelect` and `useAutocomplete`.

[hooks-issue]: https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift/issues/683
[select-readme]: https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift/tree/master/src/hooks/useSelect

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

Commit message:

feat: release 4.0.0 (#860)
* feat: implement useCombobox (#812)

* start implementation

* more code reuse

* create useCombobox

* start implementation for handlers

* remove not needed call

* input handlers

* progress on handlers

* fix close on toggle button click

* remove unneeded state change types

* add example to docsite

* focus input at toggle click + reactNative

* add setInputValue

* rename root to combobox + tests

* add icon to button

* add item tests

* add more menu tests

* finished input tests + initial state

* finish testing

* don't apply handlers if disabled

* add tests for disabled cases

* apply mozilla button close fix

* initial default values small refactor

* improvements for docs

* updates to the docs and readme

* readme updates

* prop types validation not on production

* readme correction

* add ts typings

* fix(TS): add generic to Downshift (#748)

* fix a couple of typos

* fix a type

* final touches in README

* readme update

Co-authored-by: Kamil Socha <kamil.socha@netguru.co>

src/hooks/README.md, after:

# Downshift Hooks

A set of hooks to build simple, flexible, WAI-ARIA compliant React dropdown
components. Developed as a follow up on [this issue][hooks-issue] about using
hooks in our API.

## Hooks

### useSelect

For a `<select>` custom dropdown [click here][select-readme].

### useCombobox

For a `combobox autocomplete` dropdown [click here][select-readme].

## Roadmap and contributions

Next steps:

- create/fix types (TS and Flow) for `useSelect` and `useCombobox`.
- create `useMultipleSelection` that augments `useSelect` and `useCombobox` and
  provide integrated multiple selection logic.

[hooks-issue]: https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift/issues/683
[select-readme]:
  https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift/tree/master/src/hooks/useSelect
[combobox-readme]:
  https://github.com/downshift-js/downshift/tree/master/src/hooks/useCombobox

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
