docs/useSelect/examples/html.mdx, before:

---
name: HTML select
menu: useSelect
route: /hooks/useselect/html
---

import {Playground} from 'docz'
import {useSelect} from '../../../src'
import {items, menuStyles} from './html'

# useSelect

## Readme

The `useSelect` hook provides functionality and accessibility to a dropdown that should act as a HTML `<select>`, as described
by the corresponding [ARIA docs](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/examples/listbox/listbox-collapsible.html).

User should be allowed to perform a selection after opening the dropdown's menu. Only one item may be selected at a time.
The widget should be built using a text label (optional but recommended), a button that toggles the menu, the menu itself
and the collection of items that belong in the menu.

## HTML elements

A custom `<select>` element that is created with HTML elements such as: `<label>`, `<ul>`, `<li>` and `<button>`.

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select

## Playground

<Playground style={{height: '150px'}}>
  {() => {
    const DropdownSelect = () => {
      const {
        isOpen,
        selectedItem,
        getToggleButtonProps,
        getLabelProps,
        getMenuProps,
        highlightedIndex,
        getItemProps,
      } = useSelect({items})
      return (
        <div>
          <label {...getLabelProps()}>Choose an element:</label>
          <button {...getToggleButtonProps()}>
            {selectedItem || 'Elements'}
          </button>
          <ul {...getMenuProps()} style={menuStyles}>
            {isOpen &&
              items.map((item, index) => (
                <li
                  style={
                    highlightedIndex === index
                      ? {backgroundColor: '#bde4ff'}
                      : {}
                  }
                  key={`${item}${index}`}
                  {...getItemProps({item, index})}
                >
                  {item}
                </li>
              ))}
          </ul>
        </div>
      )
    }
    return <DropdownSelect />
  }}
</Playground>

Commit message:

split docs into Usage and UI Libraries

docs/useSelect/examples/html.mdx, after:

---
name: Usage
menu: useSelect
route: /hooks/use-select/usage
---

import {Playground} from 'docz'
import {useSelect} from '../../../src'
import {items, menuStyles} from './html'

# useSelect

## Readme

The `useSelect` hook provides functionality and accessibility to a dropdown that should act as a HTML `<select>`, as described
by the corresponding [ARIA docs](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/examples/listbox/listbox-collapsible.html).

User should be allowed to perform a selection after opening the dropdown's menu. Only one item may be selected at a time.
The widget should be built using a text label (optional but recommended), a button that toggles the menu, the menu itself
and the collection of items that belong in the menu.

## HTML elements

A custom `<select>` element can be created with HTML elements such as: `<label>`, `<ul>`, `<li>` and `<button>`.
Using other HTML elements to create a custom `<select>` is useful for the custom styling of the widget, since the `<select>`
is notoriously difficult to be styled: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/select

In the example below, we use the `useSelect` hook and destructure from its result the getter props and state variables. These
are used in the following way:

| Returned prop          | Element                | Comments                                                                  |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `getLabelProps`        | `<label>`              | Adds an `id` attribute to be used for `menu` and `triggerButton`          |
| `getToggleButtonProps` | `<button>`             | Controls the open state of the list.                                      |
| `getMenuProps`         | `<ul>`                 | Makes list focusable, adds ARIA attributes and event handlers.            |
| `getItemProps`         | `<li>`                 | Called with `index` and `item`, adds ARIA attributes and event listeners. |
| `isOpen`               | before `<li>` elements | Only when it's true we render the `<li>` elements.                        |
| `highlightedIndex`     | highlighted `<li>`     | Used to style the highlighted item.                                       |
| `selectedItem`         | `<button>`             | Used to render text equivalent of selected item on the button.            |

## Playground

<Playground style={{height: '160px'}}>
  {() => {
    const DropdownSelect = () => {
      const {
        isOpen,
        selectedItem,
        getToggleButtonProps,
        getLabelProps,
        getMenuProps,
        highlightedIndex,
        getItemProps,
      } = useSelect({items})
      return (
        <div>
          <label {...getLabelProps()}>Choose an element:</label>
          <button {...getToggleButtonProps()}>
            {selectedItem || 'Elements'}
          </button>
          <ul {...getMenuProps()} style={menuStyles}>
            {isOpen &&
              items.map((item, index) => (
                <li
                  style={
                    highlightedIndex === index
                      ? {backgroundColor: '#bde4ff'}
                      : {}
                  }
                  key={`${item}${index}`}
                  {...getItemProps({item, index})}
                >
                  {item}
                </li>
              ))}
          </ul>
        </div>
      )
    }
    return <DropdownSelect />
  }}
</Playground>

## CodeSandbox

Until a direct link from Playground will work, codesandbox equivalent is at https://codesandbox.io/s/useselect-usage-53qfj
